docs/content/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial.mdx, before:

---
title: Software Defined Assets Tutorial | Dagster
description: Getting familiar with Dagster software-defined assets and tooling through a hands-on tutorial
---

# Tutorial

If you're new to software-defined assets, we recommend working through this tutorial to become familiar with them, using small examples that are intended to be illustrative of real data problems.

## Index

The tutorial is divided into several sections:

- [**Defining an Asset**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/defining-an-asset)
- [**Building Graphs of Assets**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/asset-graph)
- [**Testing Assets**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/testing-assets)

## Setup

### Python and pip

We’ll assume that you have some familiarity with Python, but you should be able to follow along even if you’re coming from a different programming language. To check that Python and the pip package manager are already installed in your environment or install them, you can follow the instructions [here](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).

### Dagster and Dagit

```bash
pip install dagster dagit requests
```

This installs a few packages:

- **Dagster**: the core programming model and abstraction stack; stateless, single-node, single-process and multi-process execution engines; and a CLI tool for driving those engines.
- **Dagit**: the UI for developing and operating Dagster assets.
- **Requests**: not part of Dagster. Our examples will use it to download data from the internet.

You can also check out our [Getting Started](/getting-started) page to make sure you have installed the packages and set up the environment properly.

Commit message:

add a Learning More section to the asset tutorial

docs/content/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial.mdx, after:

---
title: Software Defined Assets Tutorial | Dagster
description: Getting familiar with Dagster software-defined assets and tooling through a hands-on tutorial
---

# Tutorial

If you're new to software-defined assets, we recommend working through this tutorial to become familiar with the basic concepts.

## Index

The tutorial is divided into several sections:

- [**Defining an Asset**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/defining-an-asset)
- [**Building Graphs of Assets**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/asset-graph)
- [**Testing Assets**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/testing-assets)
- [**Learning More**](/guides/dagster/asset-tutorial/learning-more)

## Setup

### Python and pip

We’ll assume that you have some familiarity with Python, but you should be able to follow along even if you’re coming from a different programming language. To check that Python and the pip package manager are already installed in your environment or install them, you can follow the instructions [here](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).

### Dagster and Dagit

```bash
pip install dagster dagit requests
```

This installs a few packages:

- **Dagster**: the core programming model and abstraction stack; stateless, single-node, single-process and multi-process execution engines; and a CLI tool for driving those engines.
- **Dagit**: the UI for developing and operating Dagster assets.
- **Requests**: not part of Dagster. Our examples will use it to download data from the internet.

You can also check out our [Getting Started](/getting-started) page to make sure you have installed the packages and set up the environment properly.
